Update Rule “do-you-know-the-3-steps-to-a-pbi/rule” (#4563)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/do-you-know-the-3-steps-to-a-pbi/rule.md

---
type: rule
title: Do you know the 3 steps to completing a PBI?
uri: do-you-know-the-3-steps-to-a-pbi
authors:
  - title: Adam Cogan
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/adam-cogan
  - title: Matt Wicks
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/matt-wicks
  - title: Piers Sinclair
    url: " https://ssw.com.au/people/piers-sinclair"
related: []
redirects:
  - do-you-know-the-3-steps-to-completing-a-pbi
created: 2013-08-30T06:33:21.000Z
archivedreason: null
guid: 1de9df77-9b69-4242-b648-e08e5980e9a6
---
The lifecycle of a PBI can be broken down into 3 steps:

<!--endintro-->

### 0. Before it's ready

1. Received an email with some work to do? Get it into the backlog as a PBI ASAP (as per [Do you turn an email into a work item before starting work?](/turn-emails-into-work-items)).

> 2. Is the PBI ready? Check your PBI against your  [Definition of Ready](/have-a-definition-of-ready). "Ready" PBIs must have Acceptance Criteria. A good Definition of Ready also encourages a test-first mentality in requirements e.g. Use Spec Flow (Given, When, Then) and/or create Test Cases and Test Steps first.

Reviewer: "Ready" PBIs must have Acceptance Criteria. A good Definition of Ready also encourages a test-first mentality in requirements e.g. Use Spec Flow (Given, When, Then) and/or create Test Cases and Test Steps first."

Should this just be covered by the rule we are linking to? Otherwise it's a violation of DRY right?

### 1. Ready

1. Take the next PBI that was approved by the [Product Owner](/rules-to-better-product-owners)

> 2. Email notification to the Product Owner -  [use the @ mention rule](/when-you-use-mentions-in-a-pbi)

Reviewer: Is this necessary? I ordinarily wouldn't update the PO every time I start a PBI.

That's what the daily scrum is for right?

3. Break down your PBI into tasks

::: info

> Don't forget to make a task for testing! (So that it is visible in the task board). Note: You can also [customize the kanban board](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/get-started/work/work-from-the-kanban-board-vs) by adding a new column for testing, but we recommend adding a testing task to the PBI instead.

Reviewer: Is the second part needed?

:::

::: bad
![Figure: Adding a new "Test" state. This is only visible in the Product Backlog and not the Sprint Backlog](KB-customize-board-columns.png)
:::

::: good
![Figure: Testing Task added to PBI. This is the board the team will use for 90% of the Sprint, so testing should be clearly visible here](Testing-task.png)
:::

### 2. Code

1. From the PBI, create a new branch (so that your work is automatically tagged to the PBI)
2. On the Kanban Board, move your Task into "In Progress"

> 3. Checkout your new branch and code, code, code… (Red, Green, Refactor)

Reviewer: What is red, green, refactor....no idea

Author: its a TDD practice, the rule doesn't explain it entirely correctly but its worth linking to either way

Reviewer: Can we link a rule or something? Just so people can find out what it means.

Reviewer: Oh you've already done that, silly me!

4. Open a Pull Request and get another engineer in your team to do an "over the shoulder" check of the code

> 5. If you want feedback early from the Product Owner, record a Done Video. E.g. Snagit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Record a Done Video so you get your ducks in a row for the explanation to the Product Owner, and so they give you earlier feedback.
```

6. Make changes based on feedback (and then get more feedback)
7. Are you "Done"? Check your Definition of Done and complete the Pull Request!

### 3. Done

This should be easiest part!

> 1. Email notification to the Product Owner – send a  [Done Email (reply to the original)](/dones-do-you-reply-done-and-delete-the-original-email). Big items should have a [Done Video](/do-you-send-done-videos)
> 2. Did you have to reply to an email thread as well? Check the PBI for details and close off the thread by replying done there too (as per [Do you turn an email into a work item before starting work?](/turn-emails-into-work-items)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Close off the PBI by replying done inside the PBI and also in the email thread as per [Do you turn an email into a work item before starting work?](/turn-emails-into-work-items)
```

> Congrats. Your PBI is now ready to be demonstrated during your Sprint Review! (Note: This is also the same process you follow for a Bug work item)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congrats. Your PBI is now ready to be demonstrated during your Sprint Review!

Note: This is the same process you follow for a Bug
```
